What's up, my friend?
This is Coffee with Kaizen number 30.
And in this episode, you're going to learn English with some contemporary R&B music.
All right, my friend.
Today we're going to be listening to a song from the super popular
American R&B singer Jhené Aiko from Los Angeles, California.
She's got a smooth and calming voice, and she makes that type of laidback music that you can listen to
While you're cruising around the city. You know what I'm saying?
So if you're into contemporary R&B, then I highly recommend you check out some of her music when you get the chance.
Now, today we're going to listen to one of her most popular songs, which is B.S.
And it features another popular R&B singer named H.E.R. That's actually her name, H.E.R.
And those letters represent the words having everything revealed, just in case you were wondering.
Anyway, in this song, Jhené and H.E.R sing about bouncing back from a failed relationship and feeling an abundance of confidence,
Knowing that they'll be fine without their exes. That's the main idea of the song.
Now, as always, I'm going to play the entire song,
And then I'll explain any and all words and phrases that might be useful for you to know.
I think you're going to learn lots of vocabulary and American slang in this episode.
So, let's get started!
Yeah
Back up on my
Done dealing with you
Yeah
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back
It seem like I give so much and don't get nothin' back
I really thought it was love but you're so fuckin' whack
Always get caught up in love, but I am done with that
I can't get caught up in lust, so now I'm, yeah
Flexin' on my exes in my model X
Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque
Some of y'all ain't never had no real bitch and it shows
I keep it one hunnid from my head down to my toes
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the move
Touch down in my hometown, got nothing to lose
I am on my own now, I am in control now
I need you to go now, I can fix my own crown
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back, yeah (bitch)
Seen you with your ex, I see you still about your old ways
Might just see him for the weekend, you say that's a cold play
I be feelin' triggered, I don't know how to let it go
Really, you ain't shit and I know I'm too emotional, ay, ay
Puttin' me through it
He's the only thing that's been gettin' me through it
He be comin' through with it
And I hope you cool with it
I just met your roommate, put him on my to-do list
Doin' me
Back up on some new shit, everything in between
I'm out here, I'm gettin' stupid
I'm done bein' exclusive and
You know the truth is that these niggas is useless
I'm back on my
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Out here actin' foolish, like I'm seventeen
I just bought a new whip, don't need gasoline (yeah)
I just seen your new bitch, it boost my self-esteem (oh babe)
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back, yeah (bitch)
Flex on my ex in my model X
Flex on my, flex on my
Flex on my
(You know I'm) Back up on my bullshit
I'm back up on the scene
Oh, I
Done dealing with you, so I'm back
All right, my friend.
So hopefully, you enjoyed the song. One of my favorites, it's a really good one.
So now we're going to go to the song not line by line like we've done in the past,
Because not everything here needs to be explained.
So instead of playing the song lines and then explaining and then playing a line and then explaining it,
I'm just going to go through and kind of read the lines and explain, you know, only what's necessary.
Alright my friend, so let's get started.
So in the intro, or excuse me, the chorus and chorus is C H O R U S, chorus, and that's also known as the hook.
And it's the main idea of the song.
It's the idea that gets repeated at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of the song.
So she starts by saying, "back up on my bullshit".
It's really the first line of the song.
So what I want to explain here is first "back up on".
This one is really complicated because it's like a culture... It's a colloquial way of speaking.
Back up on my bullshit. So to be back, in this case, means to have returned. Right?
Like, you go to the store and then you come back or I come to your house and then I go back home.
It's like the idea of returning somewhere.
So back up on my bullshit, it's like, literally it makes no sense,
But colloquially makes perfect sense when we say "back up on my bullshit" without trying to make sense of the reason we say "up on".
Let me just tell you the idea of to be back up on something,
It means I have returned to whatever comes next and what comes next in that line is my bullshit.
So she's really saying I have returned to my bullshit.
Translating into standard simple English, that's what it means.
Now "my bullshit" is like a way of saying my nonsense, my toxic behavior, my childish behavior, my negative.
Not necessarily... Well, yeah, negative behavior.
Yeah, really just nonsense, ridiculous behavior, stuff like that, unproductive, unhealthy behavior.
All of that is my bullshit.
So I'm back up on my bullshit.
I'm back up on, you know, or I have returned to my old ways.
That's really the idea.
That's the idea of this song. You know what I'm saying?
So it's important to understand that line.
So the next line, she says, "back up on the scene".
So again, hopefully now you get the idea, even if you don't understand exactly.
Hopefully you get the idea of back up on.
So the second line is "back up on the scene",
And the scene in this case is like the dating scene. You know what I'm saying?
Because we might say to be on the scene means to be present at a particular location.
But in this case, the scene, like I said, it's more like the dating scene.
Because again, like I said before the song started,
This song is really about bouncing back from a breakup or recovering from a breakup and being fine without your ex.
So when she says, "I'm back up on the scene" it's like,
I just broke up with my ex, I'm single now. I'm back up on the dating scene. I'm available.
I'm back up on my bullshit. I'm ready to, you know... I don't want to be...
I'm done being exclusive. You see what I'm saying? That's the idea.
So after that, she says, "done dealing with you".
And what I want to explain here is "dealing with".
To deal with somebody, in this case, is like to be occupied by somebody.
So, you know, like me and my girl, for example,
I'm dealing with her and only her. I'm dating her and only her.
Like, she's the one that occupies my time, my attention, my energy, all that type of stuff.
I'm dealing with her. She's got me occupied, not some other girl, not any other girl. You see what I'm saying?
So when she says, "I'm done dealing with you", it's like,
I'm done letting you occupy my time and attention. Right?
I'm not going to deal with you anymore. So that's the idea.
And next, she says, "Don't know how to deal with me" which is a continuation of what she said.
She said "I'm done dealing with you because you don't know how to deal with me". Right?
So maybe I can explain in a different way.
She's saying, I'm done letting you occupy my time and attention because you don't know how to treat me.
Because to deal with somebody also means to treat them in a certain way.
So she's saying, I'm done talking to you, dating you, dealing with you because you don't know how to deal with me,
You don't know how to treat me or handle me with care. Right?
And then she says, "Done fucking with you. Don't know how to love me".
So it's kind of saying, you know, the same thing twice.
I'm done dealing with you because you don't know how to deal with me.
I'm done fucking with you because you don't know how to love me.
And to fuck with somebody is similar to deal with somebody.
If I'm fucking with you it means that I'm spending time with you,
You're occupying my attention and stuff like that.
We interact on a regular basis like friends or, in this case, a boyfriend or girlfriend or whatever.
If I'm done fucking with you, means I don't want to talk to you anymore,
I don't want to spend time with you anymore or nothing like that.
I don't fuck with you. I don't like you. That's the idea. All right?
So that's really the chorus.
Back up on my bullshit.
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fucking with you
Don't know how to love me
I'm done dealing with you
So I'm back
That's the chorus. All right? So now, let's move on to verse one.
Verse one, Jhené is singing.
So the first line, she says, "it seem like I give so much and don't get nothing back".
Now the only things I want to explain here are questions of grammar.
Because she said "it seem like", but "it" is the third person singular, right?
So you should say "it seems like I give so much and don't get nothing back".
So that's the second part I want to explain. Don't get nothing back.
Again, in standard English, this is grammatically incorrect because it's the double negative, right?
I do not get nothing. We don't do that in standard English.
You don't have two negatives in the same sentence. Like, not and nothing.
You would say "I don't get anything back".
That's like correct standard English.
But this phrase right here, Jhené is speaking what we call Ebonics,
Or Black English or African-American Vernacular English.
There's many different names for it, but it's just not standard English.
It's a different dialect with its own rules and patterns of speech and stuff like that.
So it's very common for us to conjugate all verbs the same way.
I seem, you seem, she seem, we seem, it seem, they seem. You see what I'm saying?
And then "don't get nothing".
The double negative in Ebonics is totally normal. It's standard to us. Right?
So in standard English, it's incorrect.
But in Ebonics, it's totally fine, it's correct. It makes perfect sense. You see what I'm saying?
So now the meaning of the phrase. It seems like I give so much and don't get nothing back.
She's talking about in the relationship,
I give so much of my time, energy, love, attention, affection, all these things.
But I don't get anything in return. Right?
That's what it means to not get anything back or I don't get nothing back.
Like I said before the word "back", you can think of return.
So in this case, I'm giving so much in the relationship and I feel like I don't receive anything in return. All right?
In the next line, she says, "I really thought it was love, but you're so fucking whack".
Now that one's kind of self-explanatory.
But what I want to explain here is the words "fucking" and "whack".
Because I'm sure you've heard on the podcast before me explain the fact that
The word "fucking" many times it's used to put emphasis on the word that comes after it.
And in this case, that word is whack, W H A C K.
And whack is just like, the opposite of cool. The opposite of good.
The opposite of quality. All right?
So I thought this relationship was the one. I thought this was love. I thought this was real.
But I ended up finding out that you're just fucking whack.
You're lame. You're not cool. You're not the one for me.
You're not as good as I thought you were in the beginning. Right?
So she continues and says, "Always get caught up in love. But I am done with that".
So here I just want to explain "caught up".
To get caught up in something means to become involuntary involved in something, especially emotionally. Right?
So I'm always getting involuntarily involved in love and relationships and things like that, but now I'm done with that.
So the next line, she says, "I can't get caught up in love, so now..." Yeah.
So the next line after that, I want to explain, she says,
"Flexing on my exes in my Model X"
"Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque".
That's two lines. So the first one, flexing.
This one is kind of hard to explain.
To be flexing is like, showing off.
Showing everybody how good you look or how much you have or how happy you are or whatever it is.
It's just showing off.
So if I'm flexing on my ex... and just in case you don't know,
"my ex" is a shorter way of saying my ex-girlfriend or my ex-boyfriend, my ex-partner.
So whenever you hear somebody say "my ex", that's what they're talking about.
So if I'm flexing on my ex, it's like we just broke up and I'm showing her like, I'm happy without you.
I'm getting money. I got, you know, a nice car,
Which is again or not again, it's not what I meant to say.
Model X, which is the rest of the line, she says, "Flexing all my exes in my Model X".
A Model X is a car. I believe is the Tesla. The Tesla Model X.
So she's saying, like, I just broke up with my boyfriend and now I'm flexing on him.
It's like, yeah, we broke up, whatever, but I'm still doing good.
Like, I got a brand new car, great career. I'm happy, fulfilled.
Like, I'm fine without you. You know what I'm saying?
She's flexing on him, just showing off.
And then the next line, "Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque".
This one's kind of hard because it's like a very... it's a poetic, like, artistic way of speaking.
So "pretty little skinny, little bitty", it's kind of hard to explain like,
Why that makes sense or why she said that.
But you understand the word pretty most likely you understand the word little and skinny.
And she's referring to herself because if you see a picture of her, she's a very skinny woman.
So she says, pretty little skinny, little bitty.
The word "bitty" B I T T Y, is not something that's like, that we say on a day to day basis,
But it's a creative way of saying the word "bitch".
You're saying bitch without saying bitch. You know what I mean?
It's really hard to explain that, but..
Pretty little skinny little, and she's just like describing herself in an artistic way.
She's this pretty little skinny woman.
But she says "bitty", which in my mind when I hear bitty, I think bitch.
She's just not saying the word bitch.
It's a less vulgar, more colorful, or creative way of saying that.
So she's saying, I'm a pretty little skinny little woman.
And then she says, "body model-esque".
And model-esque means similar to that of a model.
So she's talking about herself saying, a pretty woman, a skinny woman, a little woman,
And her body is like that of a model. She's gorgeous. Right?
So I'm flexing on my exes in my Model X.
Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque.
You see what I'm saying? All right.
So next line, "Some of y'all ain't never had no real bitch and it shows"
"I keep it one hundred from my head down to my toes"
I said next line. But that was two lines.
So the first one, some of y'all ain't never had no real bitch and it shows.
Now, she said "ain't never had no", and again, this is Ebonics.
A typical English teacher would tell you this is grammatically incorrect, never say something like this.
And I'm also not telling you to speak like this.
I just want you to understand that it's not incorrect, it's just a different dialect.
So when she says "ain't never had no", that's a double negative. Right?
Because "ain't" is a negative word.
And it means many things, but in this context, in this sentence, it means we're using it... how can I say?
In the present, we're using it like the present perfect tense.
So I could say "some of y'all have never had a real bitch and it shows".
And that's the present perfect in standard English that makes perfect sense.
But in Ebonics, I would say "some of y'all ain't never had".
And it's literally the same thing, the same meaning and everything.
It's just a different choice of words.
So some of you all have never had a real bitch, and it shows.
Now a real bitch it's really hard to explain the way we use the word "bitch"
Because there's so many meanings and uses, right?
It just depends on the context.
So in this context, a real bitch, which is just like a real nigga,
But we use the word bitch for women and nigga for men.
I say we and I mean like, people of my culture, not all black people and not all white people. Not all Americans.
It's hard to explain because it's, I want to say, black people and black culture, but that doesn't apply to all black people.
I can't really generalize like that.
So I'm going to say people like me, whatever that means.
I'm going to have to think about that and find a way to explain that in the future. All right?
But for the sake of this episode, I'm going to continue.
So a real bitch is essentially a real woman, a real person. An authentic, genuine person.
Never fake, never manipulative or deceitful or nothing like that.
A real bitch is somebody that's authentic.
And I mean, you understand the word "real". Just the opposite of fake.
So she's saying, "some of y'all have never had a real woman".
Some of y'all never had somebody real, and it shows.
So when she says "it shows" like, all she's saying is it's apparent, I can see it. You know what I'm saying?
Some of y'all have never had a real woman. Some of y'all have never had real love, a real partner.
And I can see that. It shows in your behavior, the way you talk, the way you carry yourself.
You ain't never had a real woman. You've been playing around with these little girls. You know what I'm saying?
And it's very apparent in the way you carry yourself or the way you behave.
That's the idea, or at least that's what I understood from the sentence. You know?
So then she says, "I keep it one hundred from my head down to my toes".
Which is a continuation of the idea because she's saying,
Some of y'all have never had a real one, and that's another way you can say it.
You don't have to say "real nigga" or "real bitch".
Something that's universal is a "real one". We say that all the time.
That dude is a real one. She's a real one. He's a real one.
It just means that he's real. He's authentic. He's not fake. You know what I'm saying?
So some of y'all have never had a real one. And that's apparent, it shows.
But I keep it one hundred from my head down to my toes.
Now, if you listen to every episode of the podcast, you should know what to keep it one hundred means.
But she's saying, I keep it one hundred, which means I'm always real, 100% authentic.
From my head down to my toes, which is just a creative way of saying 100%. Right?
From the top of my head to the bottom of my toes, my entire body,
Everything about me is real, inside and out.
I keep it one hundred from my head to my toes. You know what I'm saying?
All right. So then she says, "Back up on my bullshit. Back up on the move".
Now you should understand back up on my bullshit.
But to be back up on the move or to be on the move just means like...
It's kind of hard to explain, it just means mobile, not literally moving, but it just means...
Hold on, let me do a quick internet search to see if I can find a good definition for you.
To be on the move. To be on the move, to be traveling from one place to another or to be busy and active.
Yeah, I would say in this case, it's more like to be busy and active.
I'm not sitting at home doing nothing waiting on you to call me anymore.
I'm back up on the move. I'm getting around, I'm active, I'm doing things, enjoying my life.
I'm good without you. You know what I'm saying?
Because I'm back up on my bullshit. You feel me?
So I'm back up on my bullshit. Back up on the move.
Touch down in my hometown, got nothing to lose.
So to touch down... to touch down is a colloquial way of saying to arrive via plane or to arrive by airplane.
Because, you know, a plane takes off and then it flies to the sky
And then eventually it lands back on the Earth and the wheels touch the ground.
So it's kind of, it's hard to explain phrasal verbs, but it just means to arrive by plane.
If I touched down in my city, it means I just came here from another city,
Most likely via plane, and I just arrived.
So if I touch down in my hometown, it means I'm back in my home city, the place where I grew up, my home.
And she said "I got nothing to lose".
So it's kind of just remember the idea of the song is like, I just broke up with my ex,
And now I'm back to my old ways when I was single. You see what I'm saying?
And now I'm back in my hometown. I got nothing to lose.
I got no relationships, no responsibilities, no obligations.
Like, I'm on my bullshit. Let's get it cracking. You know what I'm saying?
So, touch down in my hometown, got nothing to lose.
I am on my own now.
I am in control now.
I need you to go now.
I can fix my own crown.
So these last two lines, she says, "I am on my own now".
And to be on your own just means to be by yourself, to be responsible for taking care of yourself.
You don't have any support or anybody helping you. You know what I'm saying?
That's what it means to be on your own.
And then she says, "I'm in control. I need you to go and I can fix my own crown".
So just in case you don't know,
A crown, it's not a hat, but it's that headpiece that a king or a queen wears. Made of gold most of the time.
It's got the jewels in there and everything that shows them,
Or that shows you that they're royalty and all that shit. That's a crown.
So she's... I can't say this is what she's doing,
But what I understand is that she's implying the fact that she's a queen. Right?
If you're wearing a crown, you're either king or queen.
So, yeah. That's all I want to explain there, just in case you didn't know what a crown was.
Now that's verse one. Okay?
So I'm just going to... actually,
Let me try to play it for you now that I've explained all of it,
Hopefully in a way that you can understand.
I'm going to try to play that verse specifically and then we'll move on. All right?
So I'm back
It seem like I give so much and don't get nothin' back
I really thought it was love but you're so fuckin' whack
Always get caught up in love, but I am done with that
I can't get caught up in lust, so now I'm, yeah
Flexin' on my exes in my model X
Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque
Some of y'all ain't never had no real bitch and it shows
I keep it one hunnid from my head down to my toes
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the move
Touch down in my hometown, got nothing to lose
I am on my own now, I am in control now
I need you to go now, I can fix my own crown
Back up on my bullshit
All right.
So hopefully now you can understand much better everything that was said in the first verse.
And then after that verse, we go back to the chorus,
Which like I said, is the main idea that gets repeated sometimes during the song.
Back up on my bullshit.
Backup on the scene.
Done dealing with you. Don't know how to deal with me.
Done fucking with you. Don't know how to love me.
Done dealing with you. So I'm back.
That's the chorus.
Then we go to verse two, which is sung by H.E.R.
So she says, "Seen you with your ex, I see you still about your old ways".
There's a couple of things I want to explain here.
The first one is how she starts the sentence. She says, "seen you with your ex".
Now, when we're speaking Ebonics, it's very, very common to say something like this.
Seen you with your ex.
When really in standard English, you would say, I saw you with your ex or I have seen you with your ex.
But in Ebonics a lot of times we conjugate verbs in the past tense differently than we might in standard English.
So really, what she's saying is "I saw you with your ex" the standard.
But in Ebonics, I would say "I seen you with your ex".
And like I said, an English teacher would tell you that's grammatically incorrect.
But in our dialect of English, it's normal to us to speak that way, standard to us.
So again, "seen you with your ex" is the same thing as saying, "I saw you with your ex".
And you notice I didn't even use the word I, or excuse me, she didn't use the word I in the sentence.
She just said, "seen you with your ex", it's implicit that she's saying, I saw you with your ex.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
So then she says, "I see you still about your old ways". So there's two things here.
The first one is, I see you still about your old ways.
When in standard English you say, I see you're still about your old ways or I see you are still about your old ways.
But again in Ebonics, there's many things, many small little changes that we make to our grammar
Or to our pronunciation that are standard to us, but not correct in standard English.
So it's totally normal for me to say something like, "I see you still about your old ways",
When my textbook or my English teacher tells me I should say, "I see you still are about your old ways".
Or "You are still", excuse me. You are still about your old ways. All right.
So it's just a little grammar detail I wanted to bring to your attention because I know... really probably all of you, but if not,
Most of you need to learn standard English for work or for travels or for whatever it is.
But I just want you to understand what's being said when you hear this dialect of English, which is Ebonics.
That's what I prefer to call it, but most of you probably know it as Black English. All right?
So at the end of the phrase she says, "about your old ways".
Now, this isn't something that we say all the time,
But to be about your old ways is basically saying like, you're still doing the same old stuff.
Your behavior, your thought process, your character, your philosophy has not changed.
You're still doing the same old shit that you've always been doing. You see what I'm saying?
I seen you with your ex. So I can see that you're still about your old ways.
I saw you with your ex-girlfriend so I could see, you know,
You still have the same mindset that you did before we started dating or while we were dating.
I see nothing has changed. You haven't grown.
You've gone back to what's familiar. You're going back to your ex-girlfriend.
I see you still about your old ways. You know what I'm saying?
I see nothing's changed. You feel me?
So that's what I understood from that line.
So after that, she says, "Might just see him for the weekend. You say that's a cold play".
Now again, you've got to remember in both verses, these women are singing as if they're talking to their ex.
So, she says, "might just see him for the weekend". She's referring to another guy. Right?
I might just see this guy for the weekend.
Now when she says, "You say that's a cold play" I don't know exactly what she means.
I have a few ideas, but I don't know exactly what she means.
So I prefer not to explain that one, because I don't want to confuse you.
And I don't really know, so I can't tell you what I know because I don't know. You know what I'm saying?
But "cold" I can tell you what the word cold means in our culture.
Really, in English in general, sometimes if something is cold, it means it's like ruthless.
There's no compassion, there's no empathy, there's no affection or nothing like that.
It's cold. It's hard. It's harsh. Heartless. You know what I'm saying?
Heartless is probably a good word.
So when she says "You said that's a cold play" maybe,
And I said I wasn't going to try to give you my ideas or theories,
But maybe she's saying when I tell you that I might just see this other dude for the weekend,
You say that's cold. Like, that's heartless. That's fucked up.
We just broke up and you're going to go fuck with some other guy or something like that.
I don't know if that's what she meant. I don't know.
But we'll leave it at that man, and move on to the next line or the next two lines.
She says "I be feeling triggered. I don't know how to let it go"
"Really, you ain't shit and I know I'm too emotional".
So the first line "I be feeling triggered".
So I be feeling, again this is Ebonics, it's a different dialect to English,
And it's totally standard to us to say "I be feeling".
In standard English it makes... it's not that it doesn't make any sense,
But it's just so, so, so incorrect.
I be feeling triggered.
But in English or excuse me, in Ebonics, it's like a different verb tense that doesn't exist in standard English.
Because when I say I be feeling, I'm not saying that I feel in this moment, I'm not saying I am feeling.
If I say I be feeling, I'm talking about something that happens continually or on a regular basis. You know what I'm saying?
I be feeling triggered, it means I have the habit of feeling triggered or very often I feel triggered.
You see what I'm saying?
We're talking about something that happens very often.
So for example, I be playing soccer like, every day.
Or I be listening to the same songs every day.
Which means I have the habit of playing soccer every day or listening to the same songs every day.
This is something that happens often. I have the habit of doing this thing. You know?
So "triggered" is like... I'm going to have to do an internet search for that one, too.
It's hard to explain the word triggered.
Define triggered. A response caused by a particular action process or situation.
Yeah, I guess so, but when somebody says I feel triggered,
It's because somebody said or did something that invoked like, emotional response. You see what I'm saying?
So if I'm talking to my girl and she says something offensive or hurtful
Or something like she's making fun of my... perfect example,
If she's making fun of my insecurities or something like that, I might feel triggered.
Something mean or hurtful that she says might make me snap like, something inside me snaps.
And now my entire mood has changed. I'm angry, I'm upset, sad, whatever.
But I feel triggered. You know?
It's like she flipped the switch or set me off. You see what I'm saying?
Hopefully that makes sense.
I'm sure you've heard the word "triggered" at some point.
And it just means you've had some strong emotional,
Most likely impulsive response to something that somebody said or did.
It made you feel very emotional for some reason. You know what I'm saying?
So I be feeling triggered. I don't know how to let it go. And you probably know this.
But just in case you don't, to let something go, to let it go,
It just means to stop caring about it as if it was in your possession, in your hand
And when you drop it or throw it away, you have led it go.
It's not... You're not carrying it anymore, figuratively. You know what I'm saying?
So then she says, "Really, you ain't shit. And I know I'm too emotional".
So when you say... It's two things here.
You ain't shit, again this is Ebonics.
Like, we don't use the word "ain't" in standard English.
Because in standard English, I would say "you are not shit" or "you aren't shit".
But in Ebonics I say, "you ain't shit".
And what that means if somebody ain't shit, it just means that they're worthless.
That's really what it means. They're worthless, they bring no value.
I don't really know how else to explain it.
They're just a piece of shit. There's nothing good about them.
They're a waste of space and they're not valuable at all.
That's what it means when you ain't shit.
Now amongst friends, somebody that you know, if I say,
"Bro, you ain't shit".
I can say it jokingly. I'm not trying to insult you and say literally that you're fucking worthless.
If I say it to a friend, I'm just... Like, We're fucking around. You know what I'm saying?
Like, nigga, you ain't shit.
It's kind of hard to explain what that even means when I'm joking with my friends.
But you know, I'm sure this is universal among or across all cultures, like with your friends, at least with guys.
I don't know. It's normal for us to like, insult each other and talk shit, and it's fun. You know what I mean?
So if I say "you ain't shit, bro". I'm not really trying to hurt your feelings or insult you or nothing like that.
But here in the song she definitely is. She's not funny. She's not joking around. She's not playing.
When she says, "Really, you ain't shit", it means nigga, you're worthless.
And I know I'm too emotional. That's the rest of the line. Okay?
This is my first time trying to explain a song in this way,
So hopefully you're still following along and it's easy to follow along.
But please, if you get a chance, give me some feedback on this explanation style.
Because I still haven't figured out the best way to explain song lyrics.
Should I go line by line or verse by verse? Or should I play the line and then explain it?
I don't fucking know. So please somebody let me know. But let's continue.
So after that, after those two lines.
I be feeling triggered. I don't know how to let it go.
Really, you ain't shit and I know I'm too emotional.
After that, she says, "Putting me through it"
"He's the only thing that's been getting me through it".
Now, again, in this case, I don't know exactly what she mean.
But what I understood when she says "putting me through it" she's referring to her ex,
I guess, but I do not know. Okay?
Because to put somebody through something means to force somebody to experience a particular situation or feeling or whatever it is.
So if her ex is putting her through it, what that means is her ex is making her life difficult.
Most of the time, that's really what it means.
If somebody is putting you through it or the situation is really putting you through it, man.
It's like, they're making you go through or experience something difficult.
So I can't think of a positive situation when somebody says, "man, she's really putting me through it".
Typically that's a negative thing. Typically this person for whatever reason,
In whatever way is making my life more difficult or challenging.
So putting me through it.
He's the only thing that's been getting me through it.
Now, I believe she's referring to a different guy.
This guy over here is the only thing that has been getting me through or helping me, let's see...
Helping me maintain my sanity while you put me through this difficult situation.
I really don't know. It makes sense in my head, I hope it makes sense to you.
So let me say it in a different way.
My ex-boyfriend is putting me through it. He's making my life difficult, man. This relationship is shit.
This guy over here is the only thing that is helping me maintain my sanity, helping me survive the situation,
Helping me get through this situation or overcome these difficulties or whatever it is. You know?
Man, I hope that makes sense.
All right. So Let's move on.
Then she says, "He be coming through with it and I hope you cool with it"
"I just met your roommate, put him on my to do list".
Nigga... like, what a thing to say, man.
So the first line, he be coming through with it. Again, this is Ebonics. Right?
He be coming through, which means on a regular basis he comes through. That's the meaning. Right?
In standard English that's incorrect. In Ebonics is totally correct.
And to come through most of the time means to come to my house or to come to where I am.
So you might be at the house and you call me and say,
"Hey, man, what are you doing?"
And I'm like, "Now I'm just chilling at the house watching TV".
And you be like, "So you want to... I don't know, you want to smoke?" Right?
"You wanna smoke some weed or get some drinks, play some video games, whatever"
"You want to kick it? You want to hang out?"
I'm like, "Yeah, sure".
And then you say, "All right. Come through".
And what that means is get in your car and come to my house.
It's hard to explain why we say it that way to come through,
But that's what it means. Come to where I am. You see what I'm saying?
So he be coming through with it.
Now what is it in this case? I mean, I'm sure we can imagine.
It might be some dick. It might be some weed. We don't know.
If he be coming through with it, he be...
He has the habit or on a regular basis he comes to where she is and gives her something.
And I'm going to let you imagine what it is because we don't know.
She didn't say. We can only assume.
So after that, she says "And I hope you're cool with it". Right?
So he be coming through with it, and I hope you cool with it. Right?
And when she says, I hope you cool with it,
To be cool with something just means to be okay with something, to have no problems with it.
And in standard English, you say, "I hope you are cool with it" or "I hope you're cool with it".
But in Ebonics, we say, "I hope you cool with it".
The verb to be just isn't there. You see what I'm saying?
So he be coming through with something most likely the dick. And I hope you cool with that.
She's talking to her ex. I hope you don't got no problems with that.
So then she says, "I just met your roommate. Put him on my to do list".
Like, bro... And I just in case you don't know, roommate is the person that you live with. Right?
So you have a two-bedroom apartment and you're splitting the rent with this other person,
That's your roommate. The person you live with.
So I just met your roommate and I put him on my to do list.
And my "to do list" is the list of things that I need to do.
So I met your roommate and now he's on my to do list because.. And it's kind of like a play on words.
It's an artistic way of speaking, right?
Because to do somebody, it's not it's not a really common thing to say, but to do somebody is like to have sex with somebody.
It can mean that it can also mean to kill somebody.
But in this case, it can mean to have sex with somebody.
But if I put this girl or this guy on my to do list, it's like, you know,
That person's in my future, I'm trying to get with this person, whatever that means.
It most likely means sex. It's almost definitely what it means in this context. Right?
I just met your roommate and put him on my to do list.
So I'm done with you, and he's next.
That's really what she's saying. Fucking savage, bro.
So then she says, "Doing me. Back up on some new shit, everything in between".
Now, "doing me" what that means is just to be doing your thing,
To be living your life on your terms, in your way. That's what it means.
So if somebody says, "Nah. Do you, man. Do you" just means live your life the way you want.
Do your thing. Do whatever you want.
Don't worry about what everybody else thinks or what everybody else wants you to do.
You do what you want. You live your life, man. Do you.
So when she says, I'm doing me, she's living her life the way she wants, on her terms. You feel me?
And then she says, "back up on some new shit, everything in between".
Now I tried to explain what "back up on" means,
So I have returned or in this case, not returned to some new shit.
But if I'm back up on some new shit, it's like...
That chapter of my life, which was our relationship, is now over.
I'm on some new shit and new shit just means like a new way of behaving, a new situation, a new lifestyle.
Like, I'm just done with my life the way it was when we were dating. That's old shit.
Now I'm on some new shit. I'm back up on my bullshit.
Now when she says everything in between, I don't really know exactly what she means.
But the idea, everything in between...
To be honest, I can't even really explain it because I don't know exactly what she means when she says everything in between.
Like, I get the idea when I'm listening to the song,
But I don't know exactly what she means, so I can't really explain that to you.
But after that, she says, "I'm out here, I'm getting stupid" "I'm done being exclusive"
"And you know the truth is that these niggas is useless".
So I'm out here, I'm getting stupid.
When I'm out here, it just means kind of like the same thing as on the scene.
Out in the streets, out and about at parties, you know, just it's not physically out somewhere.
It's just a figure of speech. Right?
I'm out here, I'm getting stupid.
And that kind of goes back to the idea of "my bullshit" because they know that this bullshit behavior is toxic. Right?
That's what she means when she says, "I'm out here, I'm getting stupid".
And you'll see later in the song in just a few lines that what I'm saying is correct,
Because they're going to further emphasize that point. All right?
So let's continue.
I'm out here, I'm getting stupid.
I'm done being exclusive.
And to be exclusive means to be in a committed relationship with somebody and everyone knows about it.
So this is my girl and I'm her boyfriend and everyone knows that we are exclusive.
The whole world knows that we are a couple and we're committed to each other.
So if I'm done being exclusive it means I'm done being committed to one person.
I'm done being in a relationship. You see what I'm saying?
That's all it means.
And then she says, "you know the truth is that these niggas is useless".
So I guess three things I want to explain here.
First, she says, "these niggas".
The word "niggas" man, it's complicated because it means a couple of different things,
But in this case, this context, she just means these guys, just men in general.
You know these niggas is useless.
And since we're talking about niggas, third person in plural, we should say "these niggas are useless".
But in Ebonics, like I said, we conjugate our verbs a lot of times the same way for all people.
You is, sometimes I is, he is, she is, we is, they is. You see what I'm saying?
Very, very common.
So, you know the truth is that these niggas is useless.
And useless, I'm sure you understand, but it just means it has no utility.
It's worthless. There's nothing I can do with this. It brings no value.
You get the idea. Right?
So the truth is that these niggas is useless.
I'm back up on my bullshit. All right?
So that's verse two.
Now, let me just play it one more time so you can hear from start to finish and hopefully you understand a little bit better.
Seen you with your ex, I see you still about your old ways
Might just see him for the weekend, you say that's a cold play
I be feelin' triggered, I don't know how to let it go
Really, you ain't shit and I know I'm too emotional, ay, ay
Puttin' me through it
He's the only thing that's been gettin' me through it
He be comin' through with it
And I hope you cool with it
I just met your roommate, put him on my to-do list
Doin' me
Back up on some new shit, everything in between
I'm out here, I'm gettin' stupid
I'm done bein' exclusive and
You know the truth is that these niggas is useless
I'm back on my bullshit
All right, my friend.
That was verse two, and then they go into the chorus again.
Really, it's kind of like the bridge.
But they say, "Back up on my bullshit. Back up on the scene"
"Out here acting foolish like I'm 17".
And that's what I meant when I said in just a few lines, you would see what I was trying to say.
Because in the second verse, she says, "I'm out here, I'm getting stupid".
And then in this course, she's saying out here acting foolish like I'm 17, that's really the same thing. You know what I'm saying?
And foolish is just like similar to stupid, not smart, not clever, not wise.
A fool is the opposite of a genius, really, an intelligent person, an educated person.
So if you're a fool, you're fucking stupid. Right?
So I'm out here acting foolish. I'm acting stupid like I'm 17. Right?
Because I mean, many of us as young people, you know, ages like 14, 15 to 18, those high school years.
You know what I'm saying? When we're just trying to figure out what's really what and all this shit.
We do a lot of dumb stuff, make a lot of bad decisions, and I think that's really what they're referring to.
Because as adults, hopefully we carry ourselves much differently than we did at 16 or 17,
Both romantically, sexually, professionally, all those things. Right? In relationships and everything.
So she's saying, "I'm out here acting foolish. I'm back up on my bullshit"
"I'm acting stupid, just like I did when I was 17".
That's the idea.
So then she says, "I just bought a new whip, don't need gasoline"
"I just seen your new bitch, it boost my self-esteem".
That shit is so cold. I love that line.
So I just bought a new whip.
Whip, W H I P is like slang for a car.
So if I'm riding in my whip, I'm riding in my car, it's the same thing.
And she said, "don't need gasoline".
And she's talking about her Model X. The Tesla Model X doesn't need gas.
So she's flexing. I just bought a new whip, don't need gasoline.
I just seen your new bitch, it boost my self-esteem.
So again, I just seen, that's Ebonics.
I should have said or she in standard English would say, "I just saw your new bitch"
Or "I have just seen your new bitch".
But in Ebonics, we say "I just seen your new bitch".
And many times in Ebonics we use the word bitch to refer to women and the word nigga to refer to men,
Even though we're not necessarily calling them a nigga or a bitch in the literal sense.
Kind of hard to explain why we do that. It's a very cultural thing.
And to be honest, I don't know exactly why we do it.
It's just.. I have an idea, but it's hard to explain cultures sometimes.
So anyway, I just seen your new bitch.
I just saw your new girl, your new girlfriend, your new main squeeze, your new whatever.
Your new bitch. The new girl you're dealing with.
I just saw her and it boost my self-esteem.
So to boost, you can think of it like a huge increase, a very rapid and big increase.
Like PUFF... like that. You can think of that when you hear "boost". Boost!
Like a rocket or something like that, take off. You know what I'm saying?
So if something boosts my self-esteem it radically increases my self-esteem.
My self-esteem goes up. It increases rapidly and greatly. Right?
So I just saw your new girl and it boost my self-esteem.
And my self-esteem is just the way I feel about myself, the way I think about myself.
How highly I regard myself.
So after I saw your new girl like, God, damn, that's who you're with?
That made me feel better about myself. You obviously haven't done better than me.
That's the idea. You obviously can't find something better than me.
If that's your new girl, if that's what you call an upgrade.
Like, damn, I feel better about myself now.
And that's how... she's basically saying like,
Your new girl has nothing on me. She's not prettier than me.
She can't give you more than I gave you. She can't do for you what I did for you. You know what I'm saying?
You downgraded when you broke up with me nigga.
Your bitch, your new bitch boost my self-esteem. You feel me?
That's what she... that's what I understood from what she said. All right?
And then the rest of the chorus is just the same as before.
Back up on my bullshit.
Back up on the scene.
Done dealing with you. Don't know how to deal with me.
Done fucking with you. Don't know how to love me.
Done dealing with you. So I'm back.
And then they end the song saying, "Flex on my ex in my model X". Right?
They say that a bunch of times. And I explained that, right?
To be flexing on my exes is like showing off,
And showing my ex how much happier I am without her or him in this case, and that I'm doing fine. Right?
I'm living a great life and you missing out because you broke up with me or I broke up with you or whatever. You fucked up.
Now I'm flexing on you to show you how happy I am in my Model X,
Don't need gasoline and your new bitch boost my self-esteem, nigga. You feel me?
So that's the song. All right?
I'm gonna play it one more time from start to finish.
And like I said, please, if you've listened to the whole episode,
Let me know on the Discord server or get in touch with me somehow.
And let me know what you think about this style of explanation.
Was it easy to follow everything I was saying? Am I talking too fast?
Should I play line by line like I did in the past?
Or do you prefer it this way? Let me know something.
And also let me know if there's anything that you still don't understand about the song,
The words in the song, the difference between standard English and Ebonics, whatever.
Any questions or doubts you have, obviously you can get in touch with me on that Discord server or however you prefer to communicate.
All right, my friend?
But I'm going to play the song like I said one more time.
And then we'll get out of here, man.
So here we go.
Yeah
Ah
Back up on my
Done dealing with you
Yeah
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back
It seem like I give so much and don't get nothin' back
I really thought it was love but you're so fuckin' whack
Always get caught up in love, but I am done with that
I can't get caught up in lust, so now I'm, yeah
Flexin' on my exes in my model X
Pretty little skinny, little bitty body model-esque
Some of y'all ain't never had no real bitch and it shows
I keep it one hunnid from my head down to my toes
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the move
Touch down in my hometown, got nothing to lose
I am on my own now, I am in control now
I need you to go now, I can fix my own crown
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back, yeah (bitch)
Seen you with your ex, I see you still about your old ways
Might just see him for the weekend, you say that's a cold play
I be feelin' triggered, I don't know how to let it go
Really, you ain't shit and I know I'm too emotional, ay, ay
Puttin' me through it
He's the only thing that's been gettin' me through it
He be comin' through with it
And I hope you cool with it
I just met your roommate, put him on my to-do list
Doin' me
Back up on some new shit, everything in between
I'm out here, I'm gettin' stupid
I'm done bein' exclusive and
You know the truth is that these niggas is useless
I'm back on my
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Out here actin' foolish, like I'm seventeen
I just bought a new whip, don't need gasoline (yeah)
I just seen your new bitch, it boost my self-esteem (oh babe)
Back up on my bullshit
Back up on the scene
Done dealing with you
Don't know how to deal with me
Done fuckin' with you, don't know how to love me
Done dealing with you, so I'm back, yeah (bitch)
Flex on my ex in my model X
Flex on my, flex on my
Flex on my
You know I'm
Back up on my bullshit
I'm back up on the scene
Oh, I
Done dealing with you, so I'm back
The fuck?
When the fuck they used to...
When the fuck did Youtube started playing ads after the video end?
That's some bullshit. Fuck Youtube.
Anyway, anyway, my friend.
What did you think of the song? I would also like to know that.
Do you enjoy the style of music?
Also, what song would you like me to analyze and explain in future episodes?
Please let me know on a Discord server whenever you get a chance, man.
But that's it for this episode. I really hope you enjoyed it, man.
This is Coffee with Kaizen number 30 in the books.
And I'll talk to you later. Peace.